Release notes v0.13.0-alpha (#1432)
spiceai/spiceai: docs/release_notes/v0.13.0-alpha.md

# Spice v0.13-alpha (May 20, 2024)

The v0.13.0-alpha release significantly improves federated query performance and efficiency with Query Push-Down. Query push-down allows SQL queries to be directly executed by underlying data sources, such as joining tables using the same data connector. Query push-down is supported for all SQL-based and Arrow Flight data connectors. Additionally, runtime metrics, including query duration, collected and accessed in the `spice.runtime.metrics` table. This release also includes a new FTP/SFTP data connector and improved CSV support for the S3 data connector.

## Highlights

- **Federated Query Push-Down (#1394):** All SQL and Arrow Flight data connectors support federated query push-down.

- **Runtime Metrics (#1361):** Runtime metric collection can be enabled using the `--metrics` flag and accessed by the `spice.runtime.metrics` table.

> - **Results Caching (#1410):** Added an optional query results cache to the HTTP SQL API (`/v1/sql`) to protect against bursts of requests and to improve performance for non-accelerated results such as refresh data returned [on zero results](https://docs.spiceai.org/data-accelerators/data-refresh#behavior-on-zero-results).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Results Caching (#1410):** Added query results caching to protect against bursts of requests and to improve performance for non-accelerated results such as refresh data returned [on zero results](https://docs.spiceai.org/data-accelerators/data-refresh#behavior-on-zero-results). Enabled by default for the HTTP API (`/v1/sql`); Arrow Flight API support coming soon.
```

> - **Results Caching (#1410):** Added query results caching to protect against bursts of requests and to improve performance for non-accelerated results such as refresh data returned [on zero results](https://docs.spiceai.org/data-accelerators/data-refresh#behavior-on-zero-results). Enabled by default for the HTTP API (`/v1/sql`); Arrow Flight API support coming soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Results Caching (#1410):** Added query results caching to protect against bursts of requests and to improve performance for non-accelerated results such as refresh data returned [on zero results](https://docs.spiceai.org/data-accelerators/data-refresh#behavior-on-zero-results). Enabled by default for the HTTP API (`/v1/sql`); Arrow Flight support coming soon.
```
